---
layout: page
title: Resume
sitemap: true
lastmod: 2017-10-20 00:00:000
---

<p class="message"> This page was last updated on 20<sup>th</sup>
October, 2017.  </p>

## Summary

I am a senior software engineer with over 6 years of experience in
building large scale web applications, and deploying and scaling them. I
am proficient in ruby, javascript frameworks and devops.


## Work Experience

-----------------

### PortfolioReport

_August, 2017 - Present_ (Ruby on Rails)

PortfolioReport is a simple app that lets you monitor one or more of
your equity portfolios and provides with daily, weekly, monthly and
other periodic reporting.

---------------

### [Jarvis](http://jarvis.jigarpatel.in)

_June, 2017 - Present_ (Ruby on Rails)

Jarvis is a bot that fetches financial market data from NSE and BSE
servers and then analyses it to generate stock recommendations.

----------------

### [UrbanStack](http://urbanstack.in)

_October, 2016 - May, 2017_ (Ruby on Rails, Ionic)

UrbanStack in an online platform that allows civic bodies to send
realtime alerts on public transport, water supply and garbage collection
to citizens, and lets citizens provide their feedback on services. It
also provides a platform for doctors to report disease cases. Civic
bodies can monitor and plan diseasse control measures through various reporting
tools and maps.

-----------------

### [Popstand Inc](http://www.popstand.com/)

_October, 2015 - September, 2016_ (Ruby on Rails, Node, Backbone.js, Cordova,
AWS Lambda)

I am working with Popstand Inc as a lead developer on multiple projects.
Together, we have built an online site to generate wills and a secure
mobile and web communication platform for doctors and patients ('Slack
for doctors'). Presently, we are building a web app for a huge social
media celebrity which needs to scale to 100s of thousands of users from
day one.

-----------------

### [QuizPro / ClassReport](http://quizpro.in)

_August, 2012 - Oct, 2015_

QuizPro is an online assessment platform for schools and other
educational institutions. It allows students to take assessments from
computers, tablets or smartphones. I am also designing an algorithm to
predict students' scores.

ClassReport provides a platform to teachers to interact with students /
parents via web and text messages.

-----------------

### Karmasoft Inc

_May, 2013 - Jan, 2015_ (Ruby Programmer + DevOps Engineer)

I designed and built an API for a music event discovery iOS app. I
scaled and load tested the API to handle 10,000 concurrent requests.
Entire app architecture was hosted on AWS (EC2, S3, ElastiCache, RDS,
Elastic Load Balancing, Auto Scaling & SES). Presently, I am working on
auto-scaling implementation.

-----------------

### [Tag Consulting](http://tag.ca)

_November, 2012 - November, 2013_ (Ruby Programmer)

I worked on a variety of projects including an online charity site
([UEnd.org](http://uend.org)), a small ERP and some other small RoR
applications.

------------------

### Desklets Inc

_January, 2012 - March, 2012_ (Ruby Programmer)

I designed and built an MVP for Desklets that helped users find and book
office spaces for short periods of times. (AirBnB of office spaces)

------------------

### [Printfriendly](http://printfriendly.com)

_July, 2011 - November, 2011_ (Javascript Programmer)

Printfriendly is a set of browser plugins and extensions that make a
page more readable. I optimized their page parsing algorithm and made it
work on sites with non-standard layouts. I also added
internationalization to the script and wrote plugins for Wordpress and
Blogger platforms, and extensions for Chrome and Firefox browsers.

------------------

### [Vinsol](http://vinsol.com)

_May, 2010 - June, 2011_ (Ruby Programmer and DevOps Engineer)

I worked on a lot of projects at Vinsol that included RoR development
and deployments. Some of the large projects that I worked on were - a
course management system for
[Continuleren](http://www.continuleren.nl/), office and space management
tool for [WeWork NYC](https://www.wework.com/) and API for SMS based
games for [PlayUp
India](http://www.business-standard.com/article/press-releases/playup-to-redefine-live-gaming-in-india-111020100117_1.html).

-------------------

### Freelance Information Security Consultant

_September, 2009 - April, 2010_

I audited information security infrastructure of some large Indian
corporations like PowerGrid Corporation, Corporation Bank, NHDC Ltd.,
IRCON International Ltd., Oriental Bank of Commerce and some other small
private companies and colleges. Helped in drafting Information Security
Policy for PowerGrid Corporation.

-------------------

### IBM India Private Limited

_June, 2008 - July, 2009_

I worked as an SAP consultant on a large SAP implementation project for
Ericsson.

-------------------

## Education

-------------------

### National Institute of Technology, Surat 

_2004 - 2008_

Bachelor of Technology in Electronics Engineering
