---
author: Jigar
date: '2013-12-17'
layout: post
title: Humble beginnings of ISRO
---

Mangalyaan is on its way to Mars. If everything goes as planned, on
24<sup>th</sup> September, 2014, India will enter an elite club of
nations (Europe, USA and Russia) who have carried out successful Mars missions.

Considering all the milestones acheived by ISRO, it is hard to belive
the humble beginnings it started from. ISRO was in a literal sense a
"Lean Startup".

It all started in 1962, when Indian National Committee for Space
Research (INCOSPAR) was formed by Department of Atomic Energy. Dr.
Vikram Sarabhai, who was its chairman, assembled a team of some
brilliant engineers and scientists. Some of them were handpicked by Dr.
Sarabhai, while some were persuaded by Dr. Sarabhai to leave their plush
jobs in western countries behind and work on national space programme.

In 1963, the team launched their first rocket from Thumba, Kerala. The rocket (Apache-Nike) was
imported from USA, the payload was French and the range clearance was
given by a Russian helicopter. The rocket was imported in parts and had
to be assembled. INCOSPAR didn't even have a workshop. A makeshift
laboratory cum workshop was setup in a church in Thumba village. Ours is
the only space programme in the world that started in a Church :-)

Since the organization was given limited budget, there were no proper
facilities for scientists and engineers. They stayed in a lodge near
Thumba station. The only mode of transportaion available to them was
cycles which also served as goods carriers. They didn't have a fleet of
helpers and laborers, and they themselves had to carry the parts, fuel and payload on cycles to launch site.

In spite of all these difficulties, the team assembled the rocket and
launched it successfully on 21<sup>st</sup> November, 1963. India's
space programme got officially started that day. By 1967, we had a full
"swadeshi" rocket - Rohini 75. A few years later, ISRO was formed and it
carried us to space age by building super successful and efficient PSLV
and GSLV rockets.

**Update** - This is the church in Thumba village where it all started.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"><p>This is where it all
started. <a
href="http://t.co/mZF7UmWHCw">pic.twitter.com/mZF7UmWHCw</a></p>&mdash;
ISRO (@ISROOFFICIAL) <a
href="https://twitter.com/ISROOFFICIAL/statuses/479124874640646145">June
18, 2014</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js"
charset="utf-8"></script>
